# MAVEN COFFEE SHOP 
***
## PROJECT OVERVIEW
### **objective**
Congratulations, you have made it to the last phase of the hiring process for the post of a Junior Data Analyst at Maven Coffee. For this phase you are required to complete some technical skills test using MS Excel, SQL and Power BI. You have been given a dataset newly generated by the company for the months January 2023 till June 2023. 
### **scope**

>You are required to perform the following tasks accordingly.

*Ms Excel*
  * Make all necessary datatype correction to allow for a seamless transition into a postgresql database.

*Sql*
* Analyse the data to answer the following questions given below:
* Count the number of transactions in the dataset
* Retrieve all records where the sales amount is greater than 100.
* Find the total sales amount for each store
* List the unique product categories available in the dataset.
* Retrieve transactions where the product type is 'Housewares' and the sales amount is between 50 and 100.
* Calculate the average sales amount per transaction
* Find the store with the highest total sales.
* Count the number of transactions for each product category and sort the result by the count in descending order.
* Find the average sales amount per transaction for each product type.
* Find the total sales amount for each Month. 

*Power bi*

 * Load the data into Power BI and design a business dashboard for Maven Coffee. 


### **methodology**
 * Data collection and Cleaning
 * Conversion of Dataset from Excel to a CSV format for ease of data import into postgresql
 * make all necessary datatype correction to allow for a seamless transition into a postgresql database. 
 * create columns for the months as this will make my analysis easier in SQL.
 * Once through, go ahead and document all that I have done. 
 * Tag the heading as “MS EXCEL Process”. 
 * Create a table in Postgresql and load the data into the table.
 * Analyse the data to answer the queries
 * Save the SQL queries for submission.   
 * Finally,load the data into Power BI and design a business dashboard for Maven Coffee. 
 * Dashboard should be properly designed and aligned.
 * Useful insights such as the Month on Month sales percentage, Sales by time and other useful insight that are important to the business. 
 * Good color combination on your dashboard. 
 * Create PDF version of the Dashboard, document any insights and recommendations you have under the heading “Power BI Processes”.
   
*Data Source*
 * Dataset is provided by a training class as an  excel file for a Data Analysis Capstone project, which was downloaded and processed

 **Tools**
 * **microsoft Excel:** Utilized for preliminary data correction,cleaning and initial review of the dataset
 * **Sql Server:**  Used for indepth analysis to extract meaningful insight
 * **Power Bi:**  Used for visualization and provide detailed interractive reports
    
*Deliverables*

* SQL File containing the queries.
* Power BI Dashboard in PDF format
* A word document report on “MS EXCEL Process” and “Power BI Process”.
